All right, you're about to get excited,
Kent, because [LAUGH] I love this feature.
It is magic, and I'm gonna do my best
to explain it to you of how it works.
But first, let's implement it so we can
see what the user experience is like.
So I'm gonna open up our
exercise 9 customer ID here.
And the first thing that I'm going
to do is implement this piece,
because it turns out that you actually
can use all these components even if
you're not using the defer API that
we're gonna use here in a second.
So we'll update all of our UI, make sure
that still working as feature parity,
and then we can bring in everything else.
So first of all, I should mention that
this feature requires React 18 streaming.
You cannot use this feature currently
with any other framework or
any other version of React.
And in addition to that,
you have to be streaming.
And this project is already configured for
that.
When this defer API is stable and
actually published,
we will have docs to show you how
to implement this function, but
you basically copy paste this, and not
a lot of changes you need to make here.
The important piece is
renderToPipeableStream with
a remix server, and this will just send
pieces chunks of the data as they come in.
I'm not a streams expert,
there may be a course about streams on
Frontend Masters, I'm not sure actually.
But yeah, definitely, there is.
>> Complete intro to real time.
>> Yes, sweet, so
streams are a thing on Frontend Masters.
Above my paygrade,
I guess is how they say that.
So we have this all configured for
streaming with remix or with React, and so
now we can use these features in remix.
Another important piece here that I should
mention is you wanna make sure that your
host support streaming as well, because
there are a lot of hosts that don't, or
at least some of their offerings don't.
So anything currently that's
built on wraps AWS Lambda,
AWS lambda today in August 2022
does not support streaming.
What they do when you try to stream
is they will buffer it all up and
wait until the connection is closed and
then they will flush it out to the client,
which is basically not.
That's not at all streaming
far as the user's concerned.
So there are popular hosts like
Netlify and Vercel, both wrap AWS.
However, both of those also wrap other
services, Netlify has an offering
that wraps Dino, and Vercel has
an offering that wraps Cloudflare.
And both of those services
do support streaming.
And of course, if you're shipping a Docker
container that has no JS or something or
even been as a runtime, those do support
streaming, and so you can use that.
Just make sure that your
host supports streaming.
If you're unsure, you're gonna ask them,
and they will tell you.
And just make sure that you
understand each other when you do.
Okay, great, so with that established,
we have streaming enabled,
everything is working.
And having that streaming
configured in our Entry server,
doesn't actually start doing anything
all that useful or interesting.
It is technically streaming the HTML.
So it is technically a little different,
but it's basically the same.
We're not taking advantage of any of
those streaming features until right now.
So suspense is a React
component that you can use.
And inside of suspense,
you can put components that can suspend.
And hopefully, you never yourself have to
write a component that suspends cuz it
involves throwing promises.
And who wants to throw promises?
Not me.
So even in courses where I teach
about suspense and how to make
a suspending component, together we
build a suspending abstraction so
that we can do that somewhere else,
cuz it's not a lot of fun.
And this await component is from remix,
and this is the suspending component.
So it is await from remix, and
this accepts a couple of arguments,
and in fact, it also accepts children,
so we'll put that there.
So first of all,
you're gonna need a fallback element.
So this is what to show when the children
of the suspense component are suspending.
So, if we're still waiting for
these children to finish and
resolve their promises, this is what
we should show while we're waiting.
And for that, we have
an InvoiceDetailsFallback that we can use.
That is the fancy pulsing
thing that we have.
And then for our await, and
we're gonna use the resolve prop here.
And this is going to be the promise
that we're going to wait for.
Now, currently, we don't have a promise,
we're still loading everything with JSON.
So we're still waiting for everything.
But as it turns out, you can await
anything in regular JavaScript.
You can say, await hi, and this is hi,
that is type of string right there,
so yeah, at runtime.
So that is totally possible,
something that you can do.
And in the same way, this component,
you can pass it even something
that's not a promise.
And so
that's what we're gonna do right now, and
then we'll turn it into a promise later.
So what we're going to be deferring,
what we're gonna be waiting for
is the customer details.
And then in the case of an error,
we want an errorElement.
Then we're going to have
an ErrorFallback here.
And we'll just say,
Something dun went wrong.
There we go.
ErrorFallback, and
it looks like actually I need to
use the message from a bad message.
Okay, cool.
So now, here is the fun part of await.
If you all thought that render props
were gone, they're back, baby.
And back with a vengeance,
cuz this feature is amazing.
So we're gonna grab all that and
stick it into here.
And the value that we get out
of this is our customerDetails.
So it's the resolved value of
the promise that you provided.
Again, this isn't a promise yet, but
you can still resolve a non-promise.
So that's what this value is going to be,
we've got all of our types and
everything is still nice.
So we're gonna reference
the resolved customerDetails.
And all of this should still work.
This is feature parity,
exactly the same way that it was
before we made all of these changes.
So it's still gonna be slow, we're still
waiting for all those invoices and
everything, and we're still getting
the skeleton and all of that stuff.
Okay, so no changes other than the code.
However, with these changes,
we can now do some really awesome stuff.
So coming back up here, I don't want
to wait for the customerDetails.
So we're going to unconcurrent this stuff
to make it a little easier to see what
the changes are.
So first, I'm going to say,
here's my CustomerInfo = await that.
And then we're gonna
need to spell it right.
Here we go.
And then our customerDetails = await this,
okay?
So this is not what you typically wanna
do, if the two things aren't dependent on
each other, you wanna run them
concurrently with promises.
Wait, or premise.all, but
this will make it a little easier
to see what we're doing here.
So now, what we're gonna do
is I'm actually not going to
return the customerDetails as an object,
I'm going to change this to
the customerDetailsPromise.
And that's what I'm going to
assign to customerDetails,
because I am going to not await.
No more waiting, and
I'm going to send a promise.
Now, JSON is going to serialize
that promise into object object,
the object you think that it does.
So we're going to use defer instead.
And this is gonna come
from remix-run/node.
And we no longer can, or
there's no point in doing this anymore,
where we check, does the promise exists?
Of course, it's going to exist,
TypeScript knows that.
So we get rid of that.
When you defer something,
you give up the opportunity to say, 404,
that doesn't exist anymore,
because we don't know until
after the document's gone,
the status has already been set.
This is just a trade off that you make
when you're streaming in general,
is that you started sending something.
That status is part of that first chunk
that you send to the browser, and so
there's no way to change that status.
There is, however, what is it called?
It's status 103,
if we go see if this pulls it up for us.
No, that's not what I was looking for,
103 Early Hints is what it's called.
This is still, I believe experimental.
Yeah, a bunch of browsers
don't support this yet, but
this allows us to give a preliminary
status code intended to use with header
to allow the user agent to
start preloading resources.
This would actually be quite cool,
because it would allow you to say, hey,
I'm working on your request.
I'm gonna do some stuff, but here's some
JavaScript files, some CSS files, and
I'm pretty sure you gonna need.
So start loading those while I
finish putting together this thing.
It's actually kinda cool.
But again, mostly only useful for
slow backends.
If your backend is fast,
it's not gonna do too much for you.
So anyway, barring that, which is
still experimental, you give up your
opportunity to change the status code
based on something that you're streaming.
All right, so with that, we are done.
So we await this stuff that is fast,
we do not await the stuff that is slow.
We defer and we send a promise instead.
And then on this side of the network,
we get what is a promise.
So this customerDetails is now
a promise which we are passing
to our await component
passing as the result value.
And this is complaining now
because this could actually be no.
See before, we were checking if it was
known, we're gonna throw in an error.
Now, it's like, hey,
it actually could be no.
I'm gonna leave it as a exercise for
the viewer to handle that case.
It's unlikely to happen,
because in this specific case, because of
the customer info exists, customerDetails
are probably going to exist, too.
So in this use case, we're probably
fine to just stick with that.
But you might wanna add something
here that says, no invoice details,
however you wanna do that.
Okay, so we're done, that's it.
Tada, check this out.
Boom, there it is.
Like lightning, kind of like our
client side fetching thing, but
very different from our
client side fetching thing.
For one thing, you can actually
notice right from the start,
look at the fav icon.
It's still spinning.
Our client side fetching didn't have that.
Our client side fetching was spinning,
spinning, and then it stopped, and
then the request to go get
the data went out, right?
In this case,
we are streaming in the response.